hooks/README.md, before:

# Commit Hooks

This document explains how to author and configure commit hooks for Mononoke.

## Overview

Two types of hooks are supported (note that both are pre-commit hooks):

* `PerChangeset` runs once per changeset.
* `PerAddedOrModifiedFile` runs once per added or modified file per changeset.

Individual hooks are declared as follows in the `server.toml` file that
contains the configuration for a repo:

```toml
[[hooks]]
# The name of your hook. Must be unique within this file.
name="my_hook"

# Path to the Lua script that implements your hook.
# Relative paths are resolved relative to the root of the config repo.
path="my_hook.lua"

# This must be either "PerChangeset" or "PerAddedOrModifiedFile".
hook_type="PerAddedOrModifiedFile"

# The following property is optional.
# If specified and there is a line in the commit message that matches
# the specified value, then the hook is not run for that commit.
bypass_commit_string="@ignore-conflict-markers"

# The following property is optional.
# If specified, the hook can be bypassed by specifying `--pushvars KEY=VALUE`
# when running `hg push`.
bypass_pushvar="KEY=VALUE"
```

Enabled hooks must be declared in `[[bookmark.hooks]]`:

```toml
[[bookmarks.hooks]]
# Note how this matches the "name" property in [[hooks]].
hook_name="my_hook"
```

Here is an example of a hook to prevent Perl files from being checked in:

```lua
-- file my_hook.lua

function hook (ctx)
  if ctx.file.path:match("\\.perl$") then
    return false, "Boo: scary Perl!"
  else
    return true
end
```

## Lua API

Your hook must be implemented in Lua. The entry point to your hook must be a
global function named `hook()`. This function should return up to three
values:

* `success` (`boolean`) This should be `true` if the hook was satisfied and
  `false` if it was not. If this is `true`, then `description` and
  `long_description` must be `nil`.
* `description` (`string` or `nil`) If the hook was not satisfied, this
  should provide a short description of the failure.
* `long_description` (`string` or `nil`) If the hook was not satisfied, this
  should provide a long description of the failure.

Here are some common properties of hooks:

The `ctx` argument passed to the hook function always has at least the following
fields:

| key | description |
| --- | ----------- |
| `config_strings` | (`table of string`) Contains string configs defined per repository config |
| `config_ints` | (`table of int`) Contains int configs defined per repository config |
| `regex_match(regex, string)` | (`function`) Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the string matches the supplied regex |

The type `file` is a table with the following fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `path` | (`string`) Path to the file relative to the repo root. |
| `is_added()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was added as part of the changeset |
| `is_deleted()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was deleted as part of the changeset |
| `is_modified()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was modified as part of the changeset
| `contains_string(needle)` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the specified string `needle` is present in this file. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `len()` | Returns a `number` that is the length of the file in bytes. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `content()` | Returns a `string` containing the contents of the file. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `path_regex_match(regex)` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file's path matches the supplied regex |

### PerChangeset

Your `hook()` function receives a single `ctx` argument, which is a table with
the following additional fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `info` | (`table`) Described below. |
| `files` | (`table`) List of objects of type `file`, described above. |
| `file_content(path)` | (`function`) Takes the relative path to a file in the repo and returns its contents. |
| `parse_commit_msg()` | (`function`) Returns a table with phabricator tags parsed. |
| `is_valid_reviewer(user)` | (`function`) Returns whether a user can review the commit. |


`ctx.info` is a table with the following fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `author` | (`string`) The author of the changeset. This should be something like `"Stanislau Hlebik <stash@fb.com>"`. |
| `comments` | (`string`) The commit message. |
| `parent1_hash` | (`string` or `nil`) `p1` for the commit as a hex string, if it exists. |
| `parent2_hash` | (`string` or `nil`) `p2` for the commit as a hex string, if it exists. |

### PerAddedOrModifiedFile

Your `hook()` function receives a single `ctx` argument, which is a table with
the following additional fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `file` | (`table`) Object of type `file`, described above. (Note `is_deleted()` will return `false`.) |

Commit message:

Fix up confusion between `description` and `long_description` in hooks
Summary:
The idea was that the short description is used for mechanical summaries of the hook failures, and the long description is used for human-readable "how to handle this" forms.

Instead, we had a mixture of styles, plus only ever returning the short description. Change this to only ever return the long description and fix hooks so that the long description is meaningful

Reviewed By: StanislavGlebik

Differential Revision: D15537580

fbshipit-source-id: 6289c1c9786862db8190b4464a3133c0620eb09c

hooks/README.md, after:

# Commit Hooks

This document explains how to author and configure commit hooks for Mononoke.

## Overview

Two types of hooks are supported (note that both are pre-commit hooks):

* `PerChangeset` runs once per changeset.
* `PerAddedOrModifiedFile` runs once per added or modified file per changeset.

Individual hooks are declared as follows in the `server.toml` file that
contains the configuration for a repo:

```toml
[[hooks]]
# The name of your hook. Must be unique within this file.
name="my_hook"

# Path to the Lua script that implements your hook.
# Relative paths are resolved relative to the root of the config repo.
path="my_hook.lua"

# This must be either "PerChangeset" or "PerAddedOrModifiedFile".
hook_type="PerAddedOrModifiedFile"

# The following property is optional.
# If specified and there is a line in the commit message that matches
# the specified value, then the hook is not run for that commit.
bypass_commit_string="@ignore-conflict-markers"

# The following property is optional.
# If specified, the hook can be bypassed by specifying `--pushvars KEY=VALUE`
# when running `hg push`.
bypass_pushvar="KEY=VALUE"
```

Enabled hooks must be declared in `[[bookmark.hooks]]`:

```toml
[[bookmarks.hooks]]
# Note how this matches the "name" property in [[hooks]].
hook_name="my_hook"
```

Here is an example of a hook to prevent Perl files from being checked in:

```lua
-- file my_hook.lua

function hook (ctx)
  if ctx.file.path:match("\\.perl$") then
    return false, "Boo: scary Perl!"
  else
    return true
end
```

## Lua API

Your hook must be implemented in Lua. The entry point to your hook must be a
global function named `hook()`. This function should return up to three
values:

* `success` (`boolean`) This should be `true` if the hook was satisfied and
  `false` if it was not. If this is `true`, then `description` and
  `long_description` must be `nil`.
* `description` (`string` or `nil`) If the hook was not satisfied, this
  must provide a short description of the failure, used to summarize this failure
  with other similar failures.
* `long_description` (`string` or `nil`) If the hook was not satisfied, this
  should provide a long description of the failure with suggestions for how the
  user should approach fixing this hook failure. Mononoke will use `description` if this
  is not provided, but this message needs to stand alone (`description` is not
  automatically added to this message).

Here are some common properties of hooks:

The `ctx` argument passed to the hook function always has at least the following
fields:

| key | description |
| --- | ----------- |
| `config_strings` | (`table of string`) Contains string configs defined per repository config |
| `config_ints` | (`table of int`) Contains int configs defined per repository config |
| `regex_match(regex, string)` | (`function`) Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the string matches the supplied regex |

The type `file` is a table with the following fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `path` | (`string`) Path to the file relative to the repo root. |
| `is_added()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was added as part of the changeset |
| `is_deleted()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was deleted as part of the changeset |
| `is_modified()` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file was modified as part of the changeset
| `contains_string(needle)` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the specified string `needle` is present in this file. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `len()` | Returns a `number` that is the length of the file in bytes. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `content()` | Returns a `string` containing the contents of the file. (Only present if `is_deleted()` returns `false`.) |
| `path_regex_match(regex)` | Returns a `boolean` indicating whether the file's path matches the supplied regex |

### PerChangeset

Your `hook()` function receives a single `ctx` argument, which is a table with
the following additional fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `info` | (`table`) Described below. |
| `files` | (`table`) List of objects of type `file`, described above. |
| `file_content(path)` | (`function`) Takes the relative path to a file in the repo and returns its contents. |
| `parse_commit_msg()` | (`function`) Returns a table with phabricator tags parsed. |
| `is_valid_reviewer(user)` | (`function`) Returns whether a user can review the commit. |


`ctx.info` is a table with the following fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `author` | (`string`) The author of the changeset. This should be something like `"Stanislau Hlebik <stash@fb.com>"`. |
| `comments` | (`string`) The commit message. |
| `parent1_hash` | (`string` or `nil`) `p1` for the commit as a hex string, if it exists. |
| `parent2_hash` | (`string` or `nil`) `p2` for the commit as a hex string, if it exists. |

### PerAddedOrModifiedFile

Your `hook()` function receives a single `ctx` argument, which is a table with
the following additional fields:

| key | description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `file` | (`table`) Object of type `file`, described above. (Note `is_deleted()` will return `false`.) |
